README.md, before:


<h2 align="center">👋 Hi there, I'm <strong>Manoela Blanke Américo</strong></h2>

<p align="center">
  🎓 <em>Bachelor’s student in Informatics and Computer Engineering</em> at 
  <strong>FEUP – Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto</strong>
  <br>
  💻 <strong>Aspiring Machine Learning, AI and Data Engineer </strong>
</p>


<br><br>

<!-- Dev Quote -->
<p align="center">
  <img 
    src="https://quotes-github-readme.vercel.app/api?type=horizontal&theme=dark"
    alt="Random Dev Quote"
    style="margin-top: 20px;"
  />
</p>
<br>

<h3>🚀 About Me</h3>
<p>
  I’m an engineering student with a strong interest in building 
  <strong>scalable, intelligent, and reliable systems</strong> that sit at the intersection of
  <strong>data, algorithms, and infrastructure</strong>.
</p>

<p>
  Throughout my academic and professional journey, I’ve worked on projects involving:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>📊 <strong>Data processing and visualization</strong> to support decision-making</li>
  <li>🧠 <strong>Machine learning models</strong> for real-world prediction tasks</li>
  <li>🖥️ <strong>Software systems</strong> with performance, robustness, and usability in mind</li>
</ul>

<p>
  I enjoy understanding not only <em>what</em> systems do, but also <em>how</em> they work end-to-end —
  from data acquisition and pipelines to models, deployment, and system constraints.
</p>

<hr>

<h3>🧠 Technical Skills</h3>

<ul>
  <li>
    <strong>Programming Languages:</strong>  
    Python, C/C++, Java, JavaScript, SQL, Haskell, Prolog, HTML, CSS, PHP
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Data & AI:</strong>  
    Pandas, NumPy, scikit-learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch, XGBoost, data preprocessing & validation
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Systems & Engineering:</strong>  
    Linux, basic networking concepts, performance-aware programming, software architecture
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Other:</strong>  
    Data visualization, model explainability, reproducible experiments
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h3>🌱 Currently Focused On</h3>

<p>
  📘 Strengthening my foundations in <strong>Machine Learning</strong>, 
  <strong>Data Systems</strong>, and <strong>Computer & Network Engineering</strong><br>
  🔬 Interested in research-oriented and applied engineering projects<br>
  🤝 Open to collaborating on <strong>AI, Data, Systems, or Engineering-focused projects</strong>
</p>

<h3>📫 Connect with Me</h3>
<p>
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/manoela-blanke-americo-88b957271" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" alt="LinkedIn">
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:manoelablanke@hotmail.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-0078D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft-outlook&logoColor=white" alt="Email">
  </a>
</p>

Commit message:

Add academic projects section to README
Added a section for academic projects with descriptions and links.

README.md, after:


<h2 align="center">👋 Hi there, I'm <strong>Manoela Blanke Américo</strong></h2>

<p align="center">
  🎓 <em>Bachelor’s student in Informatics and Computer Engineering</em> at 
  <strong>FEUP – Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto</strong>
  <br>
  💻 <strong>Aspiring Machine Learning, AI and Data Engineer </strong>
</p>


<br><br>

<!-- Dev Quote -->
<p align="center">
  <img 
    src="https://quotes-github-readme.vercel.app/api?type=horizontal&theme=dark"
    alt="Random Dev Quote"
    style="margin-top: 20px;"
  />
</p>
<br>

<h3>🚀 About Me</h3>
<p>
  I’m an engineering student with a strong interest in building 
  <strong>scalable, intelligent, and reliable systems</strong> that sit at the intersection of
  <strong>data, algorithms, and infrastructure</strong>.
</p>

<p>
  Throughout my academic and professional journey, I’ve worked on projects involving:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>📊 <strong>Data processing and visualization</strong> to support decision-making</li>
  <li>🧠 <strong>Machine learning models</strong> for real-world prediction tasks</li>
  <li>🖥️ <strong>Software systems</strong> with performance, robustness, and usability in mind</li>
</ul>

<p>
  I enjoy understanding not only <em>what</em> systems do, but also <em>how</em> they work end-to-end —
  from data acquisition and pipelines to models, deployment, and system constraints.
</p>

<hr>

<h3>🧠 Technical Skills</h3>

<ul>
  <li>
    <strong>Programming Languages:</strong>  
    Python, C/C++, Java, JavaScript, SQL, Haskell, Prolog, HTML, CSS, PHP
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Data & AI:</strong>  
    Pandas, NumPy, scikit-learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch, XGBoost, data preprocessing & validation
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Systems & Engineering:</strong>  
    Linux, basic networking concepts, performance-aware programming, software architecture
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Other:</strong>  
    Data visualization, model explainability, reproducible experiments
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

## 📂 Academic Projects

| UC   | Name       | Description |
|------|------------|-------------|
| DA   | [Urban Navigation Path-Planning Tool](https://github.com/manoelablanke4/Project-1-DA) | Graph-based urban navigation system in C++ that computes optimal and constrained routes, supporting road restrictions and environmentally-friendly mobility scenarios. |
| RCOM | [Reliable Serial Communication Protocol](https://github.com/manoelablanke4/RCOM) | C implementation of an FTP download client using TCP sockets, handling URL parsing, authentication, passive mode, and file transfer. |
| RCOM | [FTP Client over TCP](https://github.com/manoelablanke4/RCOM-L2) | C implementation of a reliable data link layer over a serial connection, using framing, error detection, and Stop-and-Wait ARQ to ensure correct file transfer. |
| PROG | [SVG Parser](https://github.com/manoelablanke4/svg-parser-cpp) | Graph-based navigation system for the STCP public transport network (Google Maps–like) |
| ESOF | [SobrasPhere](https://github.com/FEUP-LEIC-ES-2023-24/2LEIC10T3) | App that works similarly to ToGoodToGo but for academic establishments |
| BD   | [Warehouse DataBase](https://github.com/manoelablanke4/Y2S1-DataBase) | BD to efficiently manage the stock of parts and components utilized in various engineering projects, equipment maintenance, and related services within the company's workshop. |
| AI   | [Mushroom Classifier](https://github.com/leonardorsg/IA-PROJ2-MushroomClassifier) | Supervised learning project comparing multiple classifiers for edible vs. poisonous mushroom prediction, highlighting the impact of data quality on model reliability. |
| AI   | [Drone Delivery Scheduling](https://github.com/marcelmedeiros1/IA-PROJ-1) | Optimization and scheduling problem for coordinating drone deliveries under capacity, stock, and deadline constraints. |
<hr>

<h3>🌱 Currently Focused On</h3>

<p>
  📘 Strengthening my foundations in <strong>Machine Learning</strong>, 
  <strong>Data Systems</strong>, and <strong>Computer & Network Engineering</strong><br>
  🔬 Interested in research-oriented and applied engineering projects<br>
  🤝 Open to collaborating on <strong>AI, Data, Systems, or Engineering-focused projects</strong>
</p>

<h3>📫 Connect with Me</h3>
<p>
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/manoela-blanke-americo-88b957271" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" alt="LinkedIn">
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:manoelablanke@hotmail.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-0078D4?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoft-outlook&logoColor=white" alt="Email">
  </a>
</p>
